**This assignment is extremely important – (nearly) every assignment after this one uses this one!**

**If you have bugs or missing features in this, you will need to fix them before you can continue on
to new assignments. This is very typical in software development outside of school.**

**You must submit .java files. Any other file type will be ignored. Especially “.class” files.**

**You must not zip or otherwise compress your assignment. Blackboard will allow you to submit
multiple files.**

***You must submit buildable .java files for credit.***

## Background

Calling functions is a tricky business. There are several steps to take to make sure that everything
is handled correctly.

Consider:

    define add (a,b : integer; var c:integer)
    
        begin
        
            c:=a+b
        
        end

Now consider some different ways that we could call this code.

    add 1, 2, var c
    
    add a, 2, var a

And some things that shouldn’t happen (and should be an error!):

    add 1,2,3
    
    add 1,2,a
    
    add 2.3 7.4 var a

Another “gotcha” to think about – what if we change the value of a variable that is **not** marked
as var. What should happen? We could throw an error. That would require us to look at every
assignment statement and judge if the assigned variable is changeable. But we would also have to
look at every function call, to see if the passed variable is marked as var!

For example:

    define changer(var a : integer)
    
    begin
    
          a:=a+1
    
          add a,1,var a
    
    end

And what if I call changer with:
changer z

One approach to this is to forbid it. If you try to call a function without matching “var”, it
should fail. This is a legitimate way to handle this situation, but we are doing something else –
something that will let us deal with constants, too.

When a function is called:

1)      Locate the function definition; this could be a built-in (like read or write) or it could be user-defined.

2)      Make sure that the number of parameters matches OR that the function definition is variadic and built-in.

3)      Make a collection of values (InterpreterDataType):

For every parameter in invocation:

4)       `Add the constant value or the current value of the variable in the invocation`

5)     Now we call the function (either the interpreter or the “execute” of the built-in function), passing it our collection.

6)     Finally, we loop over that set of values – the called function might have changed some!

   a.       `For each value, if the called function is variadic or the called function is marked as VAR and
   the invocation is marked as VAR then`

   b.       `Update the working variable value with the values “passed back” from the function.`

## Work on the interpreter

Create a static **InterpretFunction** in the interpreter – it should take a `FunctionNode` (i.e. the
function to interpret) and a collection of `InterpreterDataType` – the parameters to the function.

To interpret a function, we will make a hashmap of string->`InterpreterDataType` – this will hold
our
variables.

Add all of our parameters to the hashmap using the names that our function expects. Next add all of
the local variables to the hashmap. Remember that we stored the constants in the “Local Variable”
section, so we need to set the initial values of these variables as appropriate.

Finally, we will call a function called “**InterpretBlock**” - this function will process all of the
code between “begin” and “end”; we will use it later for conditionals and loops.

**InterpretBlock** should take the collection of statements and a hashmap of variables. We will loop
over the collection of statements.

For now, the only statement type that we will handle is function calls.

If the statement is a function call, implement the process described in the background section,
otherwise we will ignore the statement (for now).

## Finish up

In “main” we are using the parser to parse functions. Create a hashmap in the interpreter that maps
names (strings) to `CallableNodes`. In main, every time we encounter a function, add it to that
hashmap. Also add the built-in functions that we created previously to the hashmap. We now have a
complete data structure of all of our code. Finally, in main, call **InterpretFunction** on the
function
named “start”; it is an error for that function not to exist.

 